Well, this day has arrived for your students. I see you there smiling and looking forward to this program
I'm sure it's hard for you to believe that we've actually got to graduation day
But we also know that you're very keen and
enthusiastic to get to your assignments whether you're going back to where you came from or you're going to a new assignment
over the last few months you've learned so much haven't you you've crammed those
That information into your mind and heart and now you've got that ready to implement when you go to your assignments
But we need to be careful not only to be enthusiastic keen and zealous
But also we need to be patient so we'd like to talk to you for a few moments about this thing be enthusiastic
But be patient as well
Why so well when you go to your assignments with all this that you've learned
You're going to be tempted to try and implement it everywhere
But remember you you're not going to change the whole world in one day or even the whole branch
You see it's so easy to become
Overwhelmed if we try to take on too much all at one time
So that's why it's important to be enthusiastic, but also patient
Lord Jesus Christ wasn't an excellent example of this
When Jesus came into the world the whole world needed to hear his message and
Yet he had to wait some 30 years
Growing up according to Jehovah's timetable before he started his ministry so that took patience on his part, didn't it?
But what about when Jesus started his ministry?
What was his focus you can imagine him looking around seeing all the things that need to be done in the world at that point
But let's turn our Bibles if you turn with me please to Matthew 15
Matthew 15 and verse 24 and
Here Jesus said to his apostles. I
Was not sent to anyone
except the lost sheep of the house of Israel
That's interesting
Jesus here mentions he had a specific limited
Assignment what was the assignment to go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel
Now if we turn back just a couple of chapters in chapter 10 of Matthew
You notice in verses 5 and 6 when Jesus sent out his apostles
What did he say to them?
Do not go off into the road of the nations and do not enter any Samaritan city
But instead go continually to the lost sheep of the house of Israel
So as Jesus sent out his apostles in this particular instance
What was he reminding them of?
He was telling them that they likewise had a limited assignment a specific assignment
They weren't supposed to try and do everything all at once go to the Samaritans to the Gentiles
They were to focus just on the lost sheep of the house of Israel
So when we think about this
What do we learn from these two verses?
Well first of all
Yes, the whole world needed to hear the message
But what did Jesus do and what did he expect of his apostles
That they would recognize that they had a specific assignment
They want to be overwhelmed by trying to think of changing the whole world at that point
Jesus showed great trust in Jehovah
He knew that Jehovah would gradually expand the message and the reach of the message
And of course we realize that there was an expansion
Then in 36 CE another expansion
So what does that mean for you?
You see when you return to your assignment or you go to the new one
There's going to be endless number of possibilities
Or where you could help others
To stabilize, strengthen, everyone
But if you try to take everything on at once
You're going to wear yourself out and probably wear out a whole lot of other people as well
You know the English idiom don't bite off more than you can chew
You see gradually do the things that Jehovah has assigned you to do
If you try to be too broad in what you do
You may end up not accomplishing much at all except just wearing yourself out
But be patient just as Jesus was in recognizing that each one of you will have a specific assignment
And then try to work at that
Trusting that Jehovah will allow your good example to benefit others
And gradually the effects of your work will spread to others
Now an example of this is the South Pacific
If I'll just tell you about that now when missionaries arrive in the South Pacific
That let's take for example
You might end up in a country that has 100 inhabited islands
Now you're a new missionary I remember the feeling
And then you find out there's only 10 islands that have Jehovah's Witnesses on
10 islands that have publishers and congregations
So there's 90 that don't
So what do you think the normal enthusiastic responses?
Let's get a boat we have to get a boat we must visit all the 90 islands
That needs to be done now immediately
Well usually you're assigned to one congregation in one area
Now what's the point?
What normally happens?
Well you see if you were to get a boat and there's nothing wrong with getting a boat or visiting out of the
But if that becomes your focus in you neglect your assignment
How can you follow up on all the interests that you may find on those 90 islands?
It's not just enough to go and give them some magazines
But you need to be there with them build them up and congregations are formed
So normally what happens?
Well it's amazing to see missionaries and others who work in maybe
Largest city areas they work diligently at their assignments
But then maybe others from different islands come to visit that city the missionaries and
And they get contacted they show an interest they start to study they return to their home islands
And what happens gradually the work spreads out to all these islands
So what's the point
Don't feel that you have to take on everything
Focus as Jesus did on the limited assignment you have but then along the way you may be surprised at what happens
Now that's exactly what happened to Jesus
Let's go back to Matthew chapter 15
Remember what was the assignment that Jesus had
In verse 24 he mentioned Israel
Now looking at this map we see at that time there was actually a border around that area
That we could say was his territory assignment
But when Jesus said these words where was he?
Do you remember let's look at verse 21
Jesus now went into the region of Tyre and Sidon
So when you look at the map where was Tyre and Sidon
What do you notice he said he wasn't in his territory
He was out among the Gentiles
Why when we look at the parallel account that's mentioned in Mark chapter 7
It tells us that Jesus wanted some time alone with his apostles some downtime
Because there was so many crowds. I was so busy now. I'm sure all of us can understand that feeling Jesus had
So he took them out of that general area to this
Territory that was beyond what he would normally preach in to have some quiet time together
But what happened?
Well the account tells us there was a Sorrow Phoenician woman
Perhaps of as the study notes help us to see from a Greek background as far as a nationality went
But maybe she was a citizen or an inhabitant of that area of the Sorrow Phoenician area
So this woman approached Jesus
pleading with him now she didn't look like a Jewish person
She probably didn't even speak Hebrew
She certainly wasn't in the category of the lost ones of the House of Israel
So Jesus
Initially when she started to make these efforts to to talk to him he mentioned this to his apostles in verse 24
That's our assignment
But notice this was a little different in the sense that this woman
showed an appreciation for who Jesus was notice in verse 22
She said have mercy on me Lord son of David
Now here's a Gentile woman
She really know who David was
And by saying the son of David as the study note indicates perhaps she was showing face in the fact that
Jesus is the Messiah
So she wasn't your average Sorrow Phoenician person
What did Jesus do well he tested her little he did emphasize the fact in a household
You first of all feed the children the family
And then the little dogs get fed afterwards and he perhaps he was playing on words there
It's interesting. We're not sure what language Jesus was speaking to her
The watchtower did say that Jesus perhaps did understand Greek and use it at times
Why his apostles obviously understood some Greek they wrote some of the books of the Bible in Greek
But whatever the case the record of this is written the inspired record is in Greek and it uses this term little dogs
Was that an offensive? No as it's mentioned it was an affectionate term like saying puppies or pets
So whatever the case
He must have looked very friendly perhaps out of the smaller in his face because she was not deterred
What was Jesus reaction?
Well, he acknowledged his territory his assignment, but then in verse 28 he said oh woman great is your faith
Let it happen to you as you wish
Is this the only time that Jesus did something like this for a non-Jewish person?
Remember and John chapter four and not only do we have this case of the Syrophonician woman, but John
Forer we've told about the Samaritan woman
this non-Jewish person was witness to and then even members of her village
accepted Jesus as the Messiah
And then what about the Roman army officer that Jesus was able to help and he mentioned that
Jesus hadn't even seen that type of faith in all of Israel
So what lesson do we learn from this?
Well Jesus focused on his assignment. He always acknowledged what was he's assigned to do
But when opportunities came up along the way
To help those who weren't necessarily in his assignment
He still gave them some help because they were genuine persons who needed help
Yes, although Jesus realized it wasn't yet the time to expand the work. He was willing to reach out to these ones as well
So what's the lesson for all of us?
Well when you go to your assignments you will have a specific assignments
Now if it's in a Bethel or in the field
At you'll know what your assignment is
So don't start looking at all the other assignments that are around and how you can help them and what you need to do and
Why don't they change?
Yeah, I mean you've changed a lot in the last few months, but remember they haven't
And they survive without you
So what's the key focus on your assignment
Be zealous be enthusiastic, but also be patient
Yes, have trust in Jehovah that if you focus on your assignment you work hard
You take out whatever opportunities come your way along the way
Then you can be sure you will be blessed because you're enthusiastic
But also patient